# Multilevel-Cache-Simulator
Implemented a two-level (L1 and L2) cache simulator in C++ with below highlighted assumptions

	-Cache is set-associative.
	-Cache is write-back and write no-allocate.
	-Address is 32 bits long.
	-LRU replacement policy used for block replacement.
	-No actual data is witten or picked from main memory (it is just symbolic for simulation purpose)

**Cache Design**

●**ConfigureL1Cache.txt and ConfigureL2Cache.txt**
	
	This file contains the cache configuration details.
		-Ist line is cache size in KB
		-IInd line is block size in Bytes
		-IIIrd line is number of way
		
●**CacheRequest.txt**
	This file contains the cache memory request traces. 
	
	Each request contain below mentioned attributes:
		-Access type: R [read] or W [write]
		-Address [in hexadecimal]
		-Data to write [in case of Write operation]
		
●**CacheResponse.txt**
	This file contains the output of cache access, if it is a hit or a miss [along with tag and index values]
	
●**cacheStructure.h and cacheStructure.cpp**
	These files contains the basic structure for a cache.
	
	Cache parameters defined are as follows:
		-Cache size
		-Block Size
		-Number of way and number of set
		-Number of bits for block-offset, tag and index
		-Arrays: tagArray, dataArray, lastAccessTime, validBitArray and dirtyBitArray

	Cache operations available are as follows:
		-Init_cache(): to initilaize cache
		-ReadCache():	to read from cache
		-WriteCache(): to write to cache
		-ReplaceBlock(): to replace block content
		-TagComparision(): to perform tag comparision
		
●**addrStructure.h and addrStructure.cpp**
	These files contains the basic structure to handle address provided by CPU.
	
	Address parameters defined are as follows:
		-Address as bit string and in hexadecimal
		-Tag part as bit string and in decimal format
		-Index part as bit string and in decimal format
		-Offset part as bit string

	Address operations available are as follows:
		-AddressProcessing(): 
			To convert hexadecimal address provided by CPU to bitstring and to extract all the other parameters like tag, index and offset.

●**mainMemoryStructure.h and mainMemoryStructure.cpp**
	These files contains the basic (dummy) structure to handle main memory operations.
	
	Memory parameters defined is as follows:
		-Map to hold address in binary form and corresponding data/value, which mimics the main memory storage.

	Memory operations available are as follows:
		-ReadFromMM(): 
			This function reads the data from dummy memory from the given address. If the address is not present in the dummy memory then a random value is generated and placed corresponding to it & returned.
		-WriteToMM():
			This function writes the data corresponding to the address given in the dummy memory.

●**mem_controler.cpp**
	These files contains the main function which derives the whole process.
	
	Following tasks are handled here:
		-Create desired cache using configurations from file.
		-Read and process cache requests generated by the CPU [reads from file, which mimics this behavior].
		-Process request in L1 cache and check if it is a Hit or a Miss.
		-If it is a hit in L1 perform desired operation as per the access type [read/write].
		-If it is a miss go to L2 and check if it is a hit or a miss.
		-If it is a hit in L2 perform desired operation as per the access type [read/write].
		-If it is a miss in L2 then go to main memory and perform desired operation as per the access type [read/write].
